# Getting hired?

## *03-01-2025*

If you've read my first blog, you already know some aspects of my journey here. If not, I talked about my process of learning to code and how I eventually got through The Odin Project (TOP). After finishing the last project on TOP, there actually was another section named 'Getting hired'. This probably is one of the or the most important section for every learner. It was for me, as I loved programming and wanted a career in it.

Starting the 'Getting hired' section felt amazing. It was like the time was come to pick the fruits of my labor. I read all the tips and tricks on how to prepare for job interviews, update my CV and eventually how to negotiate a potential job offer. After going through the section, I started my job search and slowly started applying. Even though I didn't have any professional experience at a company, I felt that this time my job hunt would be different because I had all these projects I had build.

Well that is were I got really disappointed. The overall majority of the jobs I applied to didn't respond. The jobs I applied to were entry-level jobs either not requiring experience or not having a hard-requirement on job experience. Another obstacle was the educational requirement on some of these listings, as some for example required a Computer Science degree. As a consequence, I started to doubt myself and whether I would be able to get hired.

After several weeks I stopped applying. My reasoning was that I obviously was not qualified enough and by continuing to apply I was doing the same things while expecting a different result. Meanwhile some thoughts started to creep in if I had not just wasted all this time and effort. But I really didn't want to give up on programming as I had finally found a profession that I enjoyed. As an example, I spend my days from early in the morning till the evening learning and coding while not getting bored or wanting a break. I was never like that in my previous jobs.

So I decided to continue this journey. First, I decided that I should maybe learn another language to improve my skills. I went through a 13 hour Rust course on FreeCodeCamp as Rust was gaining popularity. However, I did realize from all the podcasts I was listening to that this was not a good strategy so early in my career. I was still a junior in JavaScript and it was more beneficial to go deep and really master the language plus tools I already know. But that Rust course was also some kind of a diversion from all the built up frustration by the previous job hunt.

Having decided I should deepen my skills, I was left with the question: How? I didn't want to build similar full-stack websites I had already done with TOP. Not because I didn't enjoy it but because building those was not enough to get hired. So I started firing questions at ChatGPT on my options. It gave me the advice that learning Typescript was the most obvious path. Initially I wasn't so sure but after looking more into the benefits of adding types, I went for it.

First, I went through the entire documentation on the TypeScript website. This was a somewhat difficult and confusing process. However, I discovered that the Rust course had some benefit after all, as I was already somewhat familiar with adding types. I didn't know how I could master this language though. After some thinking I realized that I had to just repeat an already successful technique I had applied. In TOP you learn on different topics and after each topic you have a small project in which you apply what you have learned. I just had go through my previous projects and convert them into TypeScript. 

This process proved highly beneficial. Converting my first vanilla JavaScript projects was hard but I started to gain traction after just a couple projects. I then moved on to convert my React and NodeJS projects. Meanwhile, I bought some books on TypeScript as I was really enjoying and experiencing the benefits of it. In the end I converted almost all my projects and even started some new ones. In a period of a couple months I got to a point where I was actually pretty comfortable using TypeScript.

In the end, I am not claiming that I became an expert in TypeScript. Frequently I had to look things up and encountered countless of errors. I did however manage to solve them and build a solid foundation in using TypeScript. Gradually the time you spend on applying and fixing things decline because something in your brain lights up, I have done this before! When those moments start to increase and become less exciting, you realize how much progress you have made.